20
TRANSCENDENT KINGDOM
yaa gyasi
4.20
FICTION# FAMILY# MENTAL HEALTH#
Gifty is a fifth-year candidate in neuroscience at Stanford School of Medicine
studying reward-seeking behavior in mice and the neural circuits of depression 
and addiction.
Her brother, Nana, was a gifted high school athlete who died of a heroin overdose
after a knee injury left him hooked on OxyContin. 
Her suicidal mother is living in her bed. Gifty is determined to discover the scientific basis
for the suffering she sees all around her.

But even as she turns to the hard sciences to unlock the mystery of her family's 
loss, she finds herself hungering for her childhood faith and grappling with the 
evangelical church in which she was raised, whose promise of salvation remains as
tantalizing as it is elusive. 
Transcendent Kingdom is a deeply moving portrait of a family of Ghanaian immigrants 
ravaged by depression and addiction and grief--a novel about faith, science, religion,
love. Exquisitely written, emotionally searing, this an exceptionally powerful follow-up
to Gyasi's phenomenal debut.	
FIFTY WORDS FOR RAIN
asha lemmie
3.98
FICTION# CULTURAL#
Kyoto, Japan, 1948. "If a woman knows nothing else, she should know how to be silent. . . . 
Do not question. Do not fight. Do not resist." Such is eight-year-old Noriko "Nori" Kamiza's 
first lesson. She will not question why her mother abandoned her with only these final words. 
She will not fight her confinement to the attic of her grandparents' imperial estate.
And she will not resist the scalding chemical baths she receives daily to lighten her shameful skin.

The illegitimate child of a Japanese aristocrat and her African American GI lover,
Nori is an outsider from birth. Though her grandparents take her in, they do so only to conceal her,
fearful of a stain on the royal pedigree that they are desperate to uphold in a changing Japan. 
Obedient to a fault, Nori accepts her solitary life for what it is, despite her natural intellect
and nagging curiosity about what lies outside the attic's walls. But when chance brings her
legitimate older half-brother, Akira, to the estate that is his inheritance and destiny, Nori finds
in him the first person who will allow her to question, and the siblings form an unlikely 
but powerful bond—a bond their formidable grandparents cannot allow and that will irrevocably change 
the lives they were always meant to lead. Because now that Nori has glimpsed a world in which perhaps 
there is a place for her after all, she is ready to fight to be a part of it—a battle that just might
cost her everything.

Spanning decades and continents, Fifty Words for Rain is a dazzling epic about the ties that bind,
the ties that give you strength, and what it means to try to break free.	
PERESTROIKA IN PARIS
jane smiley
3.89
FICTION# ANIMALS# HUMOUR# CULTURAL#
Paras, short for "Perestroika," is a spirited racehorse at a racetrack west of Paris.
One afternoon at dusk, she finds the door of her stall open and--she's a curious filly--wanders
all the way to the City of Light. She's dazzled and often mystified by the sights, sounds, 
and smells around her, but she isn't afraid. Soon she meets an elegant dog, a German shorthaired 
pointer named Frida, who knows how to get by without attracting the attention of suspicious Parisians.

Paras and Frida coexist for a time in the city's lush green spaces, nourished by Frida's strategic 
trips to the vegetable market. They keep company with two irrepressible ducks and an opinionated raven. 
But then Paras meets a human boy, Etienne, and discovers a new, otherworldly part of Paris: 
the ivy-walled house where the boy and his nearly-one-hundred-year-old great-grandmother live in 
seclusion. As the cold weather and Christmas near, the unlikeliest of friendships bloom. 

But how long can a runaway horse stay undiscovered in Paris? How long can a boy keep her hidden 
and all to himself? Jane Smiley's beguiling new novel is itself an adventure that celebrates curiosity, 
ingenuity, and the desire of all creatures for true love and freedom.	
HARRY POTTER AND THE DEATHLY HALLOWS
j.k.rowling
4.62
FICTION# FANTASY#
Harry Potter is leaving Privet Drive for the last time. But as he climbs into the sidecar of Hagrid’s 
motorbike and they take to the skies, he knows Lord Voldemort and the Death Eaters will not be far 
behind.

The protective charm that has kept him safe until now is broken. But the Dark Lord is breathing fear 
into everything he loves. And he knows he can’t keep hiding.

To stop Voldemort, Harry knows he must find the remaining Horcruxes and destroy them.
He will have to face his enemy in one final battle.	
EACH OF US KILLERS
jenny bhatt
4.38
FICTION# SHORT STORY# CULTURAL#
Stories woven at the intersection of labor and our emotional lives. Set in the American Midwest,
England, and India (Mumbai, Ahmedabad, rural Gujarat) the stories in Each of Us Killers are about
people trying to realize their dreams and aspirations through their professions. Whether they are
chasing money, power, recognition, love, or simply trying to make a decent living, their hunger
is as intense as any grand love affair. Straddling the fault lines of class, caste, gender, 
nationality, globalization, and more, they go against sociocultural norms despite challenges and 
indignities until singular moments of quiet devastation turn the worlds of these characters—auto-wallah,
housemaid, street vendor, journalist, architect, baker, engineer, saree shop employee, professor,
yoga instructor, bartender, and more—upside down.	
STRANGER THINGS: SUSPICIOUS MINDS
gwenda bond
3.6
FICTION# SUPERNATURAL# THRILLER# HORROR# FANTASY#
A mysterious lab. A sinister scientist. A secret history. If you think you know the truth behind 
Eleven's mother, prepare to have your mind turned Upside Down in this thrilling prequel to the 
hit show Stranger Things. It's the summer of 1969, and the shock of conflict reverberates through 
the youth of America, both at home and abroad. As a student at a quiet college campus in the 
heartland of Indiana, Terry Ives couldn't be farther from the front lines of Vietnam or the incendiary 
protests in Washington. But the world is changing, and Terry isn't content to watch from the 
sidelines. When word gets around about an important government experiment in the small town of 
Hawkins, she signs on as a test subject for the project, code named MKULTRA. Unmarked vans, 
a remote lab deep in the woods, mind-altering substances administered by tight lipped researchers 
. . . and a mystery the young and restless Terry is determined to uncover. But behind the walls of 
Hawkins National Laboratory--and the piercing gaze of its director, Dr. Martin Brenner--lurks a 
conspiracy greater than Terry could have ever imagined. To face it, she'll need the help of her fellow 
test subjects, including one so mysterious the world doesn't know she exists--a young girl with 
unexplainable, superhuman powers and a number instead of a name: 008. Amid the rising tensions 
of the new decade, Terry Ives and Martin Brenner have begun a different kind of war--one where the 
human mind is the battlefield.	
STRANGER THINGS: WORLDS TURNED UPSIDE DOWN
gina mclyntre
4.5
BIOGRAPHY#
When the first season of Stranger Things debuted on Netflix in the summer of 2016, the show 
struck a nerve with millions of viewers worldwide and received broad critical acclaim. The series 
has gone on to win six Emmy Awards, but the its success was driven more than anything by word 
of mouth, resonating across generations. Viewers feel personal connections to the characters. Now
fans can immerse themselves in the world—or worlds—of Hawkins, Indiana, like never before.	
ILLUSIONS OF CONTROL
fathali. m. moghaddam
3.8
PSYCHOLOGICAL# SOCIAL#
Illusions of control are explored in a wide variety of domains--from the micro level of the self and 
interpersonal relations to the macro level of large organizations and intergroup and international 
relations. The authors argue that people are motivated to control the world, and in particular, to 
control future events. This tendency is strong in Western industrialized societies, where modern 
science is seen as a means through which humans can gain mastery over environmental conditions. 
The tendency to control can have positive and negative consequences. Illusions of control are often 
shattered by unexpected events such as divorce, death, and by technological and environmental 
changes. The authors argue that the best strategy for coping is to develop long-term goals and 
short-term strategies. Working from a multidisciplinary perpective, they show how to avoid the pitfalls 
of these illusions of control. This book will be of interest to students and professionals in social 
psychology, and organizational behavior management.	
THIS IS NOT A DRILL
extinction rebellion
4.2
PSYCHOLOGICAL# SOCIAL# EDUCATION#
It's time. This is our last chance to do anything about the global climate and ecological emergency. 
Our last chance to save the world as we know it. Now or never, we need to be radical. We need to rise up. 
And we need to rebel. Extinction Rebellion is a global activist movement of ordinary people, demanding 
action from Governments. This is a book of truth and action. It has facts to arm you, stories to empower 
you, pages to fill in and pages to rip out, alongside instructions on how to rebel - from organising a roadblock 
to facing arrest. By the time you finish this book you will have become an Extinction Rebellion activist. Act now 
before it's too late.	
UNDERLAND
robert mcfarlane
4.5
BIOGRAPHY# TRAVEL# NATURE#
In Underland, Robert Macfarlane takes us on a journey into the worlds beneath our feet. From the ice-blue 
depths of Greenland's glaciers, to the underground networks by which trees communicate, from Bronze Age 
burial chambers to the rock art of remote Arctic sea-caves, this is a deep-time voyage into the planet's past 
and future. Global in its geography, gripping in its voice and haunting in its implications, Underland is a work of 
huge range and power, and a remarkable new chapter in Macfarlane's long-term exploration of landscape and 
the human heart.	
THE MAZE RUNNER
james dasner
4
FICTION# ADVENTURE# APOCALYPTIC#
A group of teenagers, who call themselves the "Gladers" are left in a strange place which they call the "Glade". 
The Glade is surrounded by four doors, leading to the Maze, that close every night at sundown and open in the morning. 
Beyond the walls of the Glade is the ever-changing Maze, populated by horrifying, biomechanical creatures, called Grievers. 
Every month, a newcomer, nicknamed "Greenie", joins the Gladers, sent by a lift they call the Box. Each newcomer has all past 
memories (except language and other common things) wiped out. The only thing that they remember is their name. They are watched 
by large mechanical beetles, called 'beetle blades' which belong to their 'creators'. Each beetle blade has the word "WICKED" 
stamped across its back. The ultimate goal of the Gladers is to find a way out of the Maze. To do so, certain Gladers called 
"Runners" venture into the Maze every day, to map it in an attempt to find a pattern in the Maze that would lead them to find 
an exit. The main character, Thomas, arrives at the Glade. Shortly thereafter, a girl is sent up through the Box, arriving in 
a coma, and bringing the message: Everything is going to change. She bears a note saying that she is the last newbie to come 
through the Box. Thomas becomes an object of reverence, suspicion, and great curiosity to the Gladers due to his ties to all 
of the strange happenings in the Glade, fueled greatly after he becomes the first to survive a night inside the Maze. Together 
with new friends, such as Chuck (the second-newest newbie), Newt (second in command of the Gladers), and Minho (Keeper of the Runners), 
he begins to solve the mystery of the Maze and search for a way out.	
THE SCORCH TRIALS
james dashner
3.7
FICTION# ADVENTURE# APOCALYPTIC#
The Gladers thought that getting through the maze was it; however, they did not know that their world was scorched by the sun. 
The Gladers did not know that they would have to fight for their lives once more. Burning and naked, the earth is a wasteland, its people 
driven mad by an infection known as "The Flare". Instead of freedom, the Gladers must face another Trial. They must survive the Scorch and 
face WICKED's challenges.	
THE DEATH CURE
james dashner
4.2
FICTION# ADVENTURE# APOCALYPTIC#
In the third book of "The Maze Runner" Series, Thomas is locked up in solitary confinement for four weeks. When he is released, and Assistant 
Director Janson (Rat Man) reveals to him and the other subjects (including Group B) that there is no cure for the Flare, but that most of the 
Gladers and Group B are immune. He warns them that many people in the outside world hate them because of their unnatural resistance to the Flare, 
and that if they escape they will most likely be in more danger. Later, all Gladers and Group B members' memories are restored and they escape. 
Thomas, Newt, and Minho refuse restoration and they later escape with Jorge and Brenda. They then go to a city and have WICKED's devices in their 
necks disabled. They join forces with "Right Arm", an organization fighting against WICKED.	
THE KILL ORDER
james dashner
3.3
FICTION# ADVENTURE# APOCALYPTIC#
Before WICKED is formed, before the Glade is built, and before Thomas enters the Maze, solar flares hit the earth and mankind was ravaged by disease. 
Mark and Trina were there when it happened, and survived. Now a disease of rage and lunacy races across the eastern United States, and there's 
something suspicious about its origin and it's mutating, and all evidence suggests that it will bring humanity to its knees. Mark and Trina are 
convinced there's a way to save those left living from descending into madness.	
THE FEVER CODE
James Dashner
3
FICTION# ADVENTURE# APOCALYPTIC#
The book is set in between the events of The Kill Order and immediately before The Maze Runner. The novel is written from the various points of view 
of "The Gladers". The book primarily focuses on the training that Thomas and the others undergo before being sent into the Maze, however, it also explores 
the relationships between the Gladers before they underwent "the Swipe" that suppressed their memories, describes "the Purge" that is briefly mentioned in 
The Death Cure, and the lives of the Gladers before Thomas' insertion into the Maze, since during the events in the book he is working for WICKED. This book 
gives a background of the series, providing the reader with information they have been asking themselves. The book ends with the final moments before Thomas 
enters the Box, when he is betrayed and sent into the Maze at the beginning of The Maze Runner.	
FANTASTIC BEASTS AND WHERE TO FIND THEM
j.k.rowling
4
FICTION# FANTASY#
Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them is a 2001 guide book written by British author J. K. Rowling 
about the magical creatures in the Harry Potter universe.	
MISS PEREGRINE'S HOME FOR PECULIAR CHILDREN
ransom riggs
4.8
FICTION# FANTASY# THRILLER# MYSTERY# HORROR#
When Jacob discovers clues to a mystery that spans different worlds and times, he finds a 
magical place known as Miss Peregrine's Home for Peculiar Children. 
But the mystery and danger deepen as he gets to know the residents and learns about 
their special powers and their powerful enemies.	
THE TYRANT'S TOMB
rick riordan
3.5
FICTION# ADVENTURE# FANTASY#
Things are getting very bad, very fast, for Apollo . . .
The former God Apollo is having a pretty rough time of it. Well, for one thing, he's been turned 
into a human and banished from Olympus. And he's called Lester. 
But being an awkward mortal teenager is the least of his worries right now.
Though he and some of his friends have emerged from the Burning Maze, rescued the Oracle and 
lived to fight another day, they can't escape the tragedy that has befallen them, or the terrible 
trials still to face.So, with heavy heart, Apollo (OK, Lester) and Meg have a triumvirate still to defeat, oracles 
to rescue, and prophecies to decipher, so that the world may be 
saved, and Lester may ascend into the heavens to become Apollo once again.
But, right now, Caligula is sailing to San Francisco to deal with Camp Jupiter personally, 
and they have to get there first. Failure would mean its destruction . . .	
THE HIDDEN ORACLE
rick riordan
4
FICTION# ADVENTURE# FANTASY#
He was once an immortal God. Now, he's a teenage boy called Lester. 
Apollo has angered his father Zeus for the last time. So, how do you 
punish an immortal? By making him human. Obviously. Cast down from 
Olympus, he's weak, disorientated and stuck in New York City as a
teenage boy. It's the first time he's been without his powers,
and he has to survive in the modern world. Which isn't an easy feat
for a four-thousand-year old deity, especially one with as many enemies 
as he has. Apollo needs help, and he can only think of one place to go . . . 
an enclave of modern demigods known as Camp Half-Blood.	
THE DARK PROPHECY
rick riordan
4
FICTION# ADVENTURE# FANTASY#
He was once an immortal God, now he's an awkward teenager. Things aren't going well 
for Apollo. There's only one way he can earn back Zeus' favour, and that's to seek 
and restore the ancient oracles - but that's easier said than done. Apollo must head 
to the American Midwest where, rumour has it, a haunted cave may hold answers. There 
are a few things standing in his way though. The cave could kill him, or drive him 
insane. Oh, and a Roman Emperor, whose love of bloodshed makes Nero look tame. To 
stay alive, Apollo needs the help of a mortal goddess, a bronze dragon, and some 
familiar faces from Camp Half-Blood. Will he survive the greatest challenge of his 
four thousand year existence?	




